.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt cnd_timedwait 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cnd_timedwait
.Nd wait for a condition with timeout
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threads.h
.Ft int
.Fn cnd_timedwait "cnd_t *cnd" "mtx_t mtx" "const struct timespec *ts"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn cnd_timedwait
will stall the calling thread until a condition is being send to
.Fa cnd
from an other thread using either of 
.Xr cnd_signal 3
or
.Xr cnd_broadcast 3
for up to a given absolute time specified by
.Fa ts
(based on
.Dv CLOCK_REALTIME )
after which it will give up and continue execution.
The function will release the mutex
.Fa mtx
atomically and hold it once the thread resumes execution.
.Pp
A thread waiting with
.Fn cnd_timedwait
may be woken up by signals.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon success
.Fn cnd_timedwait
returns 
.Va thrd_success ,
if a timeout occurred
.Va thrd_timedout
will be returned.
On an error
.Va thrd_error
will be returned. 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cnd_init 3
.Xr cnd_destroy 3
.Xr cnd_broadcast 3
.Xr cnd_timedwait 3
.Xr cnd_wait 3
.Xr mtx_init 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn cnd_timedwait
function first appeared in the C11 standard ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
 
 
