.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt rwmtx_trywrlock 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rwmtx_trywrlock
.Nd attempt to acquire a write lock
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threadse.h
.Ft int
.Fn rwmtx_trywrlock "rwmtx_t *rw"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn rwmtx_trywrlock
will attempt to acquire a write lock on the given read/write lock
.Fa rw .
If a write lock cannot be acquired the function will return a respective
return code.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon success
.Fn rwmtx_trywrlock
will return 
.Va thrd_success
if a write lock has been acquired. If no write lock can be acquired at this time
.Va thrd_busy
will be returned.
In case of error
.Va thrd_error
will be returned.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rwmtx_init 3
.Xr rwmtx_destroy 3
.Xr rwmtx_rdlock 3
.Xr rwmtx_wrlock 3
.Xr rwmtx_tryrdlock 3
.Xr rwmtx_timedrdlock 3
.Xr rwmtx_timedwrlock 3
.Xr rwmtx_unlock 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn rwmtx_trywrlock
function first appeared in the Adelsbach Enhanced Threading Library.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
