.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: Mar 30 2025 $
.Dt smtx_init 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smtx_init
.Nd initialize a spinlock
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threadse.h
.Ft int
.Fn smtx_init "smtx_t *s" "int type"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn smtx_init
initializes a spinlock with the given
.Fa type .
.Pp
The
.Fa type
argument can be either of
.Bl -tag
.It Em smtx_private
the spinlock is not shared among child processes.
.It Em smtx_shared
the spinlock is shared among child processes. 
This is not supported on MacOS.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon success
.Fn smtx_init
returns 
.Va thrd_success , 
otherwise 
.Va thrd_error
will be returned. 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smtx_destroy 3
.Xr smtx_lock 3
.Xr smtx_trylock 3
.Xr smtx_unlock 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn smtx_init
function first appeared in the Adelsbach Enhanced Threading Library. 
MacOS support was added in version 1.0.1 using an implementation with 
atomic variables.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
