.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt thrd_detach 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_detach
.Nd detach thread
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threads.h
.Ft int
.Fn thrd_detach "thrd_t thrd"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn thrd_detach
will detach the given thread
.Fa thrd
from the execution environment. Detached threads cannot be
joined again with
.Xr thrd_join 3 .
The application will not terminate until all detached threads have been
exited. If the main thread of the application is exited, the application
will wait until all detached threads have exited.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The function
.Fn thrd_detach
returns 
.Va thrd_success
if the thread has been detached or
.Va thrd_error
if an error has occurred.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr thrd_create 3
.Xr thrd_exit 3
.Xr thrd_yield 3
.Xr thrd_equal 3
.Xr thrd_join 3
.Xr thrd_current 3
.Xr thrd_sleep 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn thrd_equal
function first appeared in the C11 standard ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
 
