.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt thrd_sleep 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_sleep
.Nd high-resolution thread sleep
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threads.h
.Ft int
.Fn thrd_sleep "const struct timespec *ts"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn thrd_sleep
will suspend the execution of the current thread for a specified time
interval
.Fa ts .
The time interval specified by
.Fa ts
might be rounded up, depending upon the system time resolution, as such a
thread may sleep longer than requested.
.Pp
The thread may be woken up by a signal regardless of the interval specified.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The function
.Fn thrd_sleep
will return 0 if the thread has been sleeping for at least the requested time.
If an error occurs -1 will be returned,
.Va errno
may be set but this cannot be relied upon, as it is not part
of the standard behavior.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr thrd_create 3
.Xr thrd_exit 3
.Xr thrd_yield 3
.Xr thrd_equal 3
.Xr thrd_detach 3
.Xr thrd_current 3
.Xr thrd_join 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn thrd_sleep
function first appeared in the C11 standard ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
