.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt thrd_join 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_join
.Nd detach thread
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threads.h
.Ft int
.Fn thrd_join "thrd_t thrd" "int *res"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn thrd_join
will suspend the execution of the current thread and will wait for the
given thread
.Fa thrd
to finish executing. The exit status of the given thread as set by
.Xr thrd_exit 3
can then be retrieved by the
.Fa res
argument if it is not
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
The given thread must not have been detached by
.Xr thrd_detach 3
and must be a member of the current process.
.Pp
If the given thread has already been terminated and
.Fn thrd_join
has not yet been called for the given thread before,
the exit status can be retrieved without the function blocking.
.Pp
If multiple threads call
.Fn thrd_join
for the same thread they all will wait for execution of the given thread,
however only one of the threads will retrieve the exit status.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The function
.Fn thrd_join
returns 
.Va thrd_success
on success. If the
.Fa res
argument is not
.Dv NULL
it will populate the integer pointed to by the argument with the
exit status of the joining thread.
In case of an error
.Va thrd_error
if an error has occurred.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr thrd_create 3
.Xr thrd_exit 3
.Xr thrd_yield 3
.Xr thrd_equal 3
.Xr thrd_detach 3
.Xr thrd_current 3
.Xr thrd_sleep 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn thrd_join
function first appeared in the C11 standard ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
