.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt thrd_create 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_create
.Nd create a thread
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threads.h
.Vt typedef int (*thrd_start_t)(void*);
.Ft int
.Fn thrd_create "thrd_t *thrd" "thrd_start_t fn" "void *arg"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn thrd_create
will create a thread in the current process and store it's identifier in
.Fa thrd .
The thread will execute the given start callback function
.Fa fn
and pass it the given opaque pointer
.Fa arg .
.Pp
The thread will continue executing concurrently until either the given
function
.Fa fn
returns or
.Xr thrd_exit 3
has been called from within the thread.
.Pp
Any thread-local variables that have been created with
.Xr tss_create 3
will be initialized to
.Dv NULL
for the new thread.
.Pp
A thread will inherit the signal mask of it's process.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The function
.Fn thrd_create
will return
.Va thrd_success
on success, if there is insufficient memory
.Va thrd_nomem
will be returned. In any other error case
.Va thrd_error
will be returned.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr thrd_exit 3
.Xr thrd_sleep 3
.Xr thrd_yield 3
.Xr thrd_equal 3
.Xr thrd_detach 3
.Xr thrd_current 3
.Xr thrd_join 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn thrd_create
function first appeared in the C11 standard ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
