.\" Copyright 2024, Adelsbach UG (haftungsbeschraenkt)
.\" Copyright 2014-2024, Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining 
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files
.\" (the “Software”), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 9 2020 $
.Dt tss_create 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tss_create
.Nd create a thread specific data key
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb threads
.In threads.h
.Vt typedef void (*tss_dtor_t)(void*);
.Ft int
.Fn tss_create "tss_t *key" "tss_dtor_t dtor"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn tss_create
will create a thread-specific data
.Fa key
which is visible to all threads in the process. 
.Pp
The data is by default initialized as
.Dv NULL 
for all active threads. Any new thread that is being created will have
it's value also initialized as 
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
An optional destructor
.Fa dtor
can be specified which will called at the exit of thread if the
thread-specific data is not
.Dv NULL .
The order of the destructors being called is arbitrary.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon success
.Fn tss_create
returns 
.Va thrd_success , 
otherwise 
.Va thrd_error
will be returned. 
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tss_get 3
.Xr tss_set 3
.Xr tss_delete 3
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Fn tss_create
function first appeared in the C11 standard ISO/IEC 9899:2011.
.Sh AUTHORS
Jan Adelsbach <jan@jadelsbach.de>
 
